The data for your sequence prediction problem probably needs to be scaled when training a neural network, such as a Long Short-Term Memory recurrent network.
Scaling Input Variables
  The input variables are those that the network takes on the input or visible layer in order to make a prediction.
  A good rule of thumb is that input variables should be small values, probably in the range of 0-1 or standardized with a zero mean and a standard deviation of one.
  Whether input variables require scaling depends on the specifics of your problem and of each variable. Let's look at some examples.
Categorical Inputs 
  You may have a sequence of cvategorical inputs, such as letters or statuses.
  Generally, categorical inputs are first integer encoded then one hot encoded. That is, a unique integer value is assigned to each distinct possible input, then a binary vector of ones and zeros is used to represent each integer value.
  By definition, a one hot encoding will ensure that each input is a small real value, in this case 0.0 or 1.0.
Real-Valued Inputs
  You may have a sequence of quantities as inputs, such as prices or temperatures.
  If the distribution of the quantity is normal, then it should be standardized, otherwise the series should be normalized. This applies if the range of quantity values is large (10s 100s,etc.)or small (0.01,0.0001).
  If the quant values are small (near 0-1) and the distribution is limited (e.g. standard deviation near 1) then perhaps you can get away with no scaling of the series.
Other Inputs
  Problems can be complex and it may not be clear how to best scale input data.
  If in doubt, normalize the input sequence. If you have the resources, explore modeling woth the raw data, standardized data , and normalized and see if there is a beneficial difference.
Scaling Output Variables
  The output variable is the variable predicted by the network.
  You must ensure that the scale of your output variable matches the scale of the activation function (transfer function) on the output layer of your network.
  If your output activation function has range of [0,1], then obviously you must ensure that the target values lie within that range. But it is generally better to choose an output activation function suited to the distribution of the targets than to force your data to conform to the output activation function.
Binary Classification Problem
  If your problem is a binary classifivtion problem, then the output will be class values 0 and 1. This is best modeled with a sigmoid activation function on the output layer. Output values will be real values between 0 and 1 that can be snapped to crisp values.
Multi-class Classification Problem
  If your problem is a multi-class classification problem, then the output will be a vector of binary class values between 0 and 1, one output per class value. This is best modeled with a softmax activation function on the output layer. Again, output values will be real values between 0 and 1 that can be snapped to crisp values.
Regression Problem
  If your problem is a regression problem, then the output will be a real value, This is best modeled with linear activation function. If the distribution of the value is normal, then you can standardized the output variable. Otherwise ,the output variable can be normalized.
