The supepower of machine learning is generalization.
  In this post, you will discover generalization, the superpower of machine learning.
What do machine learning algorithms do?
  When we fit a machine learning algorithm, we quire a training dataset.
  This training dataset includes a set of input patterns and the corresponding output patterns. The goal of the machine learning algorithm is to learn a reasonable approximation of the mapping from input patterns to output patterns.
  Here are some examples to make this concrete:
  *Mapping from emails to whether they spam or not for email spam classification.
  *Mapping from house details to house sale price for house sale price regression.
  *Mapping from photograph to text to describe the photo in photo caption generation.
  The list could go on.
  We can summarize this mapping that machine learning algorithms learn as a function(f) that predicts the output(y) given the input (X), or restated.
    y=f(x)
  Our goal in fitting the machine learning algorithms is to get the best possible f() for our purposes.
  We are training the mdoel to make predictions in the future given inputs for cases where we do not have the outputs. Where the outputs are unknown. This requires that the algorithm learn in general how to take observations form the domain and make a prediction, not just the specifics of the training data.
  This is called generalization.
Generalization is Hard, but Powerful
  A machine learning algorithm must generalize training data to the entire domain of all unseen observations in the domain so that it can make accurate predictions when you user the model.
  This is really hard.
  This approach of generalization requires that the data that we use to train the model is a good and reliable sample of the qualiry and the more representative, the easier it will be for the model to learn the unknown and underlying "true" mapping that exists from inputs to outputs.
  To generalize means to go from something specific to something broad.
  It's the way humans we learn.
  *We don't memorize specific roads when we learn to drive; we learn to drive in general so that we can drive on any road or set of conditions.
  *We don't memorize specific computer when learning to code; we learn general ways to solve problems with code for any business case that might com,out
  *We don't memorize the specific word order in nartural language; we learn general meanings for words and put themin new sequence as needed.
  THe list could go on.
  Machine learning algorithms are procedures to automatically generalize from historical observations. And they can generalize on more data than a human could consider, faster than a human could consider it.
  It is the speed and scale with which these automated generalization machines operate that is what is so exciting in the field of machine learning.
We Prefer Simpler models
  The machine learning model is the result of the automated generalization procedure called the machine learning algorithm.
  The model could be said to be a generalization of the mapping from training inputs to training outputs.
  There may be many ways to map inputs to outputs for a specific problem and we can navigate ways by testing different algorithms, different algorithm configurations, different training data, and so on.
  We cannot know which approach will result in the most skillful model beforehand, therefore we must test a suite of approaches, configurations, and framings of the problem to discover what works and what the limits of learning are on the problem before selecting a final model to use.
  The skill of the model at making predictions determines the quality of the heberalization and can help as a guide during the model selection process.
  Out of the millions of possible mappings, we prefer simpler mappings over complex mappings. Put another way, we preder the simplest possible hypothesis that explains the data. THis is one way to choose the best performing and comes from Occam's razor.
  The simpler model is often (but not always) easier to understand and maintain and is more robust. In practice, you may want to choose the best performing simiplest model.
Machine Learning is Not for Every Problem
  The ability to automatically learn by genernalization is powerful, but is not suitable for all problems.
  *Some problems require a precise solution, such as arithmetic on a bank account balance.
  *Some problems can be solved bty generalization, but simpler solutions exist, such as calculating the square root of positive numbers.
  *Some problems look like they could be solved by generalization but there exists no structured underlying relationship to generalize from the data, or such a function is too complex, such as prediction security prices.
  Key to the effective use of machine learning is learning where it can and cannot (or should not) be used.
  Sometimes this is obvious, but often it is not. Again, you must use experience and experimentation to help tease out whether a problem is a good fit for being solved by generalization.
